---
title: 'Five New Books To Read In October 2020'
description:
  'Which books coming out in October 2020 are we particularly excited about? We
  have compiled a list of the top five new non-fiction books to go on our
  reading list. Books from David Attenborough, Annie Duke, Deepak Chopra, Pete
  Buttigieg & Stephen Wertheim.'
intro:
  'Too many books, not enough time! But that doesn’t stop us from piling more
  and more books onto an already straining ‘to-read’ pile. Here are five books
  coming out in October 2020 that caught our attention.'
slug: 'five-new-books-to-read-in-october-2020'
tags:
  'new books, october 2020, Trust: Americas Best Chance, Pete Buttigieg, How to
  Decide: Simple Tools for Making Better Choices, Annie Duke, A Life on Our
  Planet: My Witness Statement and a Vision for the Future, David Attenborough'
publishedDate: '10-10-2020'
published: true
layout: 'article'
writtenBy: 'James and Adam'
---

import { Divider, Box, Image, Flex } from '@chakra-ui/core';
import { AmazonAdvert } from '../../components/adverts/AmazonAdvert';
import { AmazonCta } from '../../components/partials/AmazonCta';
import { ImageFlexCenter } from '../../components/partials/ImageFlexCenter';

<Box textAlign="center">
  <h2>1. Trust: America's Best Chance - Pete Buttigieg</h2>
</Box>

<ImageFlexCenter
  src="book-summaries/pete-buttigieg-trust"
  altText="Trust: America's Best Chance"
  width={266}
  height={400}
/>

### What is it about?

“Interweaving history, political philosophy, and affecting passages of memoir,
Buttigieg explores the strong relationship between measures of prosperity and
levels of social trust. He provides an impassioned account of a threefold crisis
of trust: in our institutions, in each other, and in the American project
itself. Today, these perilous patterns of distrust have wreaked havoc on nearly
every sector of society, as Americans increasingly resent the very government
that needs to be part of the solution. With the internet and partisan television
networks acting as accelerants, Americans jettison any sense of shared reality,
lose confidence in experts and scientists, and cope with the grim national
tragedy of a pandemic that has only further exemplified the lethality of
distrust. Buttigieg contends that our success, or failure, at confronting the
greatest challenges of the decade―racial and economic justice, pandemic
resilience, and climate action―will rest on whether we can effectively
cultivate, deepen, and, where necessary, repair the networks of trust that are
now endangered, or for so many, have never even existed.”

_Taken from the product description on Amazon._

### Why I want to read it

I have been following the 2020 American presidential election race since the
primaries. Former candidate Pete Buttigieg was not somebody I had previously
heard of but I was intrigued by his story: a thirty-something, openly gay war
veteran with political experience as mayor of South Bend, Indiana.

The more I heard him speak, the more impressed I became with his ideas and
competence, so I am looking forward to getting a deeper insight into his life
and his ambitions to be part of a positive change in his country’s society.
Still only 38, I expect we’re going to be hearing about Buttigieg for decades to
come.

### Release Date

October 6th, 2020

### Where to get it

<AmazonCta link="https://www.amazon.com/Trust-Americas-Chance-Pete-Buttigieg/dp/1631498770/ref=as_li_ss_tl?ie=UTF8&linkCode=ll1&tag=paperbacktrav-20&linkId=13b6f74c6e5a141f14f4e00b26ba13b8&language=en_US" />

<Box textAlign="center" pt={8}>
  <h2>2. How to Decide: Simple Tools for Making Better Choices - Annie Duke</h2>
</Box>

<ImageFlexCenter
  src="book-summaries/annie-duke-how-to-decide"
  altText="How to Decide: Simple Tools for Making Better Choices"
  width={266}
  height={400}
/>

### What is it about?

“What if there was a better way to make quality decisions so you can think
clearly, feel more confident, second-guess yourself less, and ultimately be more
decisive and be more productive?

Making good decisions doesn't have to be a series of endless guesswork. Rather,
it's a teachable skill that anyone can sharpen. In How to Decide, bestselling
author Annie Duke and former professional poker player lays out a series of
tools anyone can use to make better decisions. You'll learn: • To identify and
dismantle hidden biases. • To extract the highest quality feedback from those
whose advice you seek. • To more accurately identify the influence of luck in
the outcome of your decisions. • When to decide fast, when to decide slow, and
when to decide in advance. • To make decisions that more effectively help you to
realize your goals and live your values.

Through interactive exercises and engaging thought experiments, this book helps
you analyze key decisions you've made in the past and troubleshoot those you're
making in the future. Whether you're picking investments, evaluating a job
offer, or trying to figure out your romantic life, How to Decide is the key to
happier outcomes and fewer regrets.”

_Taken from the product description on Amazon._

### Why I want to read it

The impact of decision-making has become progressively clearer to me with age.
Decisions I made very quickly or on gut instinct when I was younger have had
life-changing long-term consequences. Moving abroad after university, taking and
leaving specific jobs, spending time learning specific skills rather than
others.

So the idea of taking a more structured approach to decision-making appeals to
me (better late than never!). That’s not to say that gut instinct is always
right or wrong, but I look forward to reading How to Decide to arm myself with a
better set of tools for approaching important decisions in the future. - James

### Release Date

October 13th 2020

### Where to get it

<AmazonCta link="https://www.amazon.com/How-Decide-Simple-Making-Choices-ebook/dp/B07TRJB3S3/ref=as_li_ss_tl?ie=UTF8&linkCode=ll1&tag=paperbacktrav-20&linkId=f85ad205de489ca676c4fa7defe29e28&language=en_US" />

<Box textAlign="center" pt={8}>
  <h2>
    3. A Life on Our Planet: My Witness Statement and a Vision for the Future -
    Sir David Attenborough
  </h2>
</Box>

<ImageFlexCenter
  src="book-summaries/david-attenborough-a-life-on-our-planet"
  altText="A Life on Our Planet: My Witness Statement and a Vision for the Future"
  width={266}
  height={400}
/>

### What is it about?

“I am 94. I've had an extraordinary life. It's only now that I appreciate how
extraordinary.

As a young man, I felt I was out there in the wild, experiencing the untouched
natural world - but it was an illusion. The tragedy of our time has been
happening all around us, barely noticeable from day to day - the loss of our
planet's wild places, its biodiversity.

I have been witness to this decline. A Life on Our Planet is my witness
statement, and my vision for the future. It is the story of how we came to make
this, our greatest mistake - and how, if we act now, we can yet put it right.

We have one final chance to create the perfect home for ourselves and restore
the wonderful world we inherited.'

All we need is the will to do so.”

_Taken from the product description on Amazon._

### Why I want to read it

Sir David Attenborough is beloved in Britain. His voice is known to millions who
have grown up to his narrations on television shows exploring exotic and faraway
parts of the world most of us could only dream about visiting. Now 93,
Attenborough really has lived an extraordinary life and I’m really looking
forward to learning more about it in his own words. - James

### Release Date

October 6th, 2020

### Where to get it

<AmazonCta link="https://www.amazon.com/Life-Our-Planet-Witness-Statement/dp/1538719983/ref=as_li_ss_tl?ie=UTF8&linkCode=ll1&tag=paperbacktrav-20&linkId=ce6963e255cb585fb329fc28aab07e0d&language=en_US" />

<Box textAlign="center" pt={8}>
  <h2>
    4. Total Meditation: Practices in Living the Awakened Life - Deepak Chopra
  </h2>
</Box>

<ImageFlexCenter
  src="book-summaries/deepak-chopra-total-meditation"
  altText="Total Meditation: Practices in Living the Awakened Life "
  width={266}
  height={400}
/>

### What is it about?

For the past thirty years, Deepak Chopra has been at the forefront of the
meditation revolution in the West. Total Meditation offers a complete
exploration and reinterpretation of the physical, mental, emotional, relational,
and spiritual benefits that this practice can bring. Deepak guides readers on
how to wake up to new levels of awareness that will ultimately cultivate a clear
vision, heal suffering in your mind and body, and help recover who you really
are. Readers will undergo a transformative process, which will result in an
awakening of the body, mind, and spirit that will allow you to live in a state
of open, free, creative, and blissful awareness twenty-four hours a day.

With this book, Deepak elevates the practice of meditation to a life-changing
quest for higher consciousness and a more fulfilling existence. He also
incorporates new research on meditation and its benefits, provides practical
awareness exercises, and concludes with a 52-week program of meditations to help
revolutionize every aspect of your life.

_Taken from the product description on Amazon._

### Why I want to read it

Anything to do with meditation fascinates me and I am always wanting to
understand more about the ancient practise. Deepak is bringing up to date
research on the benefits of meditation which I am also really interested in. It
also seems this book will be filled with practical content too. The more people
that practise meditation the more at peace the world will be and I am in
complete favour of that. - Adam

### Release Date

October 1st, 2020

### Where to get it

<AmazonCta link="https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/1984825313/ref=as_li_tl?ie=UTF8&camp=1789&creative=9325&creativeASIN=1984825313&linkCode=as2&tag=paperbacktrav-20&linkId=298c38c47003013bfe38ef8f6cce44e0" />

<Box textAlign="center" pt={8}>
  <h2>
    5. Tomorrow, the World: The Birth of U.S. Global Supremacy - Stephen
    Wertheim
  </h2>
</Box>

<ImageFlexCenter
  src="book-summaries/stephen-wertheim-tomorrow-the-world"
  altText="Tomorrow, the World: The Birth of U.S. Global Supremacy"
  width={266}
  height={400}
/>

### What is it about?

For most of its history, the United States avoided making political and military
commitments that would entangle it in European-style power politics. Then,
suddenly, it conceived a new role for itself as the world’s armed superpower―and
never looked back. In Tomorrow, the World, Stephen Wertheim traces America’s
transformation to the crucible of World War II, especially in the months prior
to the attack on Pearl Harbor. As the Nazis conquered France, the architects of
the nation’s new foreign policy came to believe that the United States ought to
achieve primacy in international affairs forevermore.

Scholars have struggled to explain the decision to pursue global supremacy. Some
deny that American elites made a willing choice, casting the United States as a
reluctant power that sloughed off “isolationism” only after all potential
competitors lay in ruins. Others contend that the United States had always
coveted global dominance and realized its ambition at the first opportunity.
Both views are wrong. As late as 1940, the small coterie of officials and
experts who composed the U.S. foreign policy class either wanted British
preeminence in global affairs to continue or hoped that no power would dominate.
The war, however, swept away their assumptions, leading them to conclude that
the United States should extend its form of law and order across the globe and
back it at gunpoint. Wertheim argues that no one favored “isolationism”―a term
introduced by advocates of armed supremacy in order to turn their own cause into
the definition of a new “internationalism.”

We now live, Wertheim warns, in the world that these men created. A
sophisticated and impassioned narrative that questions the wisdom of U.S.
supremacy, Tomorrow, the World reveals the intellectual path that brought us to
today’s global entanglements and endless wars.

_Taken from the product description on Amazon._

### Why I want to read it

America is a country of extremes. They produce some of the world’s most
intelligent and innovative people, contribute massively to the global economy
and have had a massive influence on the entertainment industry around the world.
At the same time they lead the world in obesity rates, many millions are
illiterate and around 40,000,000 people live in poverty. I am so intrigued by
this country so when I see a book about how America became a global supremacy I
am going to read it. - Adam

### Release Date

October 30th, 2020

### Where to get it

<AmazonCta link="https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/067424866X/ref=as_li_qf_asin_il_tl?ie=UTF8&tag=paperbacktrav-20&creative=9325&linkCode=as2&creativeASIN=067424866X&linkId=a665c6af241e696ffda83dd5aec8fb2e" />
